The Ireland Forest Disturbance from Earth Observation (IFordDEO) Python module

In order to run, you will need to have installed the following:

Python. I've specifically used the Continuum Analytics distributions (https://www.continuum.io/downloads), and utilised packages from conda-forge (there are some compilation issues with the standard conda Python compilations of GDAL), though you could also use ones that are available via pip or easy_install, assuming that you have proper compilation methods set up for your operating systems (Windows users: this is why I suggest using Anaconda or Miniconda). You will need the following packages for this to work:

1. numpy
2. numexpr (latest version, earlier versions had memory leak issues)
3. gdal

How to install them via conda? Simple:

> conda install -c conda-forge numpy numexpr gdal

Then hit yes for any additional packages needed.

You will also need the Irish Earth Observation (IEO) module (https://github.com/DrGuy/ieo), install via:

> python setup.py --install

This should set up imageprocess. Once successfully set up, install IForDEO via:

> python setup.py --install

During setup, you will need to input the following information:
1. Required: the base directory for IForDEO output data.
2. Optional: the IForDEO catalog data directory. By default, this will be in the automatically created in the base IForDEO directory, but you have the option of creating it wherever you so choose. It is not the same as the IEO catalog directory, which is also used by this module.
3. Optional, but highly recommended. The location of the raster forestry parcel mask file, where 1 =  forest parcel, 0 = not. Using this will greatly speed up processing, but it is not necessary for the model to run.
4. Optional, but actually unneeded for most uses. The location of a shapefile of all of Ireland. This is only needed if you want to generate your own tile grid for Ireland. Since a tile grid is included, the code will run fine without the shapefile.